Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A programming language is a language that programmers need to communicate with a computer. So, from here we understand that it’s a computer language that helps developers to communicate with a computer to create an application.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
JDK= Java Development Kit
* JRE: Java Runtime Environment
* It’s a software that we need when we wants to create any application with java. It is for execution and development.
* JVM: Java Virtual Machine
* Is a part of Java Runtime Environment.it is a kind of compilers that compile the file from .java to .class. the JVM understand what we write as human language and it convert it to the computer language
* JIT: Just In Time: 
* It’s an interpreter that is used to interpret the code from binaries to a native code. It’s a compiler.
* Debugger: 
* The debugger lets the user see how their program is viewed by the computer.
* Compiler:
* It’s the responsible of translating the file from a .java file to a .class. in other words it converts the code from a human language to byte code.





What is IDE?
A.
Integrated development environment. It’s a well-designed application that helps the programmers to write their codes by providing ready keywords and different colors, it also contains a compiler and a debugger



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
* Eclipse
* IntelliJ IDEA
* MyEclipse
* NetBeans
* DrJava
* JDeveloper


Explain the entire java life cycle.

The Java life cycle begin when the developers starts writing their source code in an IDE and this period we call it text editing. Then after finishing the text editing we have to save the file under a .java extension.in addition to that, after saving the file under an extension .java, the second step is the compilation step, that it mean to convert the code from a human language to a computer language by using the command javac (java compiler). Then we will get a .class file after the compilation.
Finally, the execution step, the application is ready for the execution after passing all the steps of code development and the compilation.

what is class?
A class is a blue print for creating objects.

What is object?
Is an instance of a class
What is the entry point of an application?
Why main is static?
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier?
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









